README.md, before:

# GPS Tracker System for FiveM Roleplay Servers

A complete, production-ready GPS tracking system for FiveM roleplay servers. Features automatic duty integration, job-based visibility, optional item requirements, and performance optimization for 100+ concurrent players.

## Features

- **Automatic Duty Integration**: Tracker automatically enables when players go on duty and disables when they clock out
- **Job-Based Visibility**: Only players from configured job types can see each other on the map
- **Cross-Job Visibility**: Support for multiple job categories that can see each other (e.g., police and sheriff)
- **Optional Item Requirement**: Configurable requirement for players to have a specific item in inventory
- **All-Job Support**: Optional fallback mode so any job can use the tracker
- **Panic Button System**: Sends emergency panic alerts with configurable animation and temporary panic blips
- **Cuff Abuse Protection**: Prevents tracker and panic usage while cuffed
- **ox_inventory Ready**: Use tracker/panic as ox_inventory items via exports and client events
- **Framework Support**: Full compatibility with ESX and QBCore frameworks
- **Performance Optimized**: Efficient update intervals and batch processing for high-player-count servers
- **Customizable Blips**: Configure different blip sprites, colors, and sizes per job type with player-name labels
- **Distance Limiting**: Optional maximum distance for blip visibility

## Requirements

- FiveM server (latest stable release)
- ESX 1.2+ or QBCore framework
- Lua knowledge (for advanced customization)

## Installation

### Step 1: Download and Extract

1. Download the `gps_tracker` folder
2. Extract it to your server's `resources` directory
3. The folder structure should look like:
   ```
   server/
   └── resources/
       └── [local]/
           └── gps_tracker/
               ├── fxmanifest.lua
               ├── config.lua
               ├── client/
               │   └── client.lua
               └── server/
                   └── server.lua
   ```

### Step 2: Configure the Script

1. Open `config.lua` in a text editor
2. Set your framework: `Config.Framework = 'ESX'` or `'QBCore'`
3. Configure the jobs you want to enable tracking for
4. Customize blip settings, update intervals, and other options
5. Save the file

### Step 3: Add to Server Configuration

Add the resource to your `server.cfg`:

```cfg
ensure gps_tracker
```

**Important**: Make sure `gps_tracker` is loaded AFTER your framework resources:

```cfg
ensure es_extended  # or qb-core
ensure gps_tracker
```

### Step 4: Restart Your Server

Restart your server or use the console command:
```
refresh
start gps_tracker
```

## Configuration Guide

### Framework Selection

Set the framework in `config.lua`:

```lua
Config.Framework = 'ESX'  -- Options: 'ESX', 'QBCore', 'Auto'
```

### Adding Jobs

Edit the `Config.Jobs` table in `config.lua`:

```lua
Config.Jobs = {
    ['police'] = {
        enabled = true,
        blip = {
            sprite = 1,           -- Blip sprite ID
            color = 38,           -- Blip color ID
            scale = 0.8,          -- Blip size (0.1 - 5.0)
            label = 'Police Unit',-- Label shown on map
            showDistance = true,  -- Show distance in label
        },
        visibleTo = {'police', 'sheriff', 'ems', 'ambulance'}, -- Who can see them
        requireOnDuty = true,     -- Must be on duty
    },
}
```

### Job Visibility Configuration

Configure who can see each job using the `visibleTo` array:

```lua
-- Only police can see each other
visibleTo = {'police'}

-- Police and sheriff can see each other
visibleTo = {'police', 'sheriff'}

-- All emergency services can see each other
visibleTo = {'police', 'sheriff', 'ems', 'ambulance', 'fire'}

-- Anyone with tracker can see them (not recommended for RP)
visibleTo = {'all'}
```

### Enabling Item Requirement

To require players to have a specific item:

1. Set `Config.RequireItem = true` in config.lua
2. Configure the required item name: `Config.RequiredItem = 'gps_device'`
3. Add the item to your server's items database

**For ESX:**
```sql
INSERT INTO `items` (`name`, `label`, `weight`) VALUES ('gps_device', 'GPS Device', 500);
```

**For QBCore:**
Add to `qb-core/shared/items.lua`:
```lua
['gps_device'] = {
    ['name'] = 'gps_device',
    ['label'] = 'GPS Device',
    ['weight'] = 500,
    ['type'] = 'item',
    ['image'] = 'gps_device.png',
    ['unique'] = false,
    ['useable'] = false,
    ['shouldClose'] = false,
    ['combinable'] = nil,
    ['description'] = 'A GPS tracking device used by emergency services'
},
```

### Performance Tuning

Adjust these settings based on your server's player count:

```lua
Config.UpdateInterval = 3000  -- Milliseconds between updates

Config.Performance = {
    batchUpdates = true,      -- Enable batch processing
    batchSize = 10,           -- Players per batch
    batchDelay = 100,         -- Delay between batches (ms)
    staleBlipTimeout = 10000, -- Timeout for stale blips (ms)
    cleanupInterval = 30000,  -- Cleanup interval (ms)
}
```

**Recommended Settings:**
- **50-100 players**: UpdateInterval = 3000ms
- **100-200 players**: UpdateInterval = 4000ms
- **200+ players**: UpdateInterval = 5000ms, enable batchUpdates

## Available Commands

By default, the following commands are available (configure in `config.lua`):

- `/enabletracker` - Manually enable the GPS tracker
- `/disabletracker` - Manually disable the GPS tracker
- `/trackerstatus` - Check current tracker status
- `/panic` - Send a panic alert to authorized units

## Framework-Specific Notes

### ESX Integration

The script hooks into these ESX events:
- `esx:playerLoaded` - Player joined and loaded
- `esx:setJob` - Player job changed
- `esx:onJob` - Player went on duty (custom event)
- `esx:offJob` - Player went off duty (custom event)

**Custom Duty Events:**
If your ESX server uses different duty event names, update them in `Config.ESX`:

```lua
Config.ESX = {
    onDutyEvent = 'esx:onJob',
    offDutyEvent = 'esx:offJob',
}
```

### QBCore Integration

The script hooks into these QBCore events:
- `QBCore:Client:OnPlayerLoaded` - Player joined and loaded
- `QBCore:Client:OnJobUpdate` - Player job changed
- `QBCore:Server:OnDutyUpdate` - Player duty status changed

QBCore automatically handles duty status through the job object.

## Blip Color and Size Customization Guide

### Choosing the Right Blip Size

Blip sizes range from 0.1 (tiny) to 5.0 (huge). Here are recommendations:

**For Different Department Sizes:**
- **Small departments (5-10 players)**: Medium size (1.0)
- **Medium departments (10-30 players)**: Large size (1.8)
- **Large departments (30+ players)**: Huge size (2.5)

**For Different Use Cases:**
- **Regular patrol**: Medium (1.0) or Large (1.8)
- **Emergency response**: Large (1.8) or Huge (2.5)
- **Covert operations**: Small (0.8)
- **Maximum visibility**: Huge (2.5)

**Predefined Sizes Available:**
```lua
Config.BlipSizes.tiny      -- 0.5 (Very subtle)
Config.BlipSizes.small     -- 0.8 (Standard)
Config.BlipSizes.medium    -- 1.0 (Recommended)
Config.BlipSizes.large     -- 1.8 (Very visible)
Config.BlipSizes.huge      -- 2.5 (Hard to miss)
```

### Choosing the Right Blip Color

**Police Departments:**
- Standard Police: Blue (38) or Navy Blue (40)
- Sheriff: Blue (38) or Dark Blue (64)
- SWAT: White (1) or Black (10)
- Highway Patrol: Blue (38) or Light Blue (16)

**Emergency Services:**
- EMS/Paramedics: White (1) or Pink (60)
- Fire Department: Orange (5) or Gold (42)
- Search & Rescue: Green (3) or Lime Green (81)

**Security:**
- Private Security: Orange (5) or Dark Orange (26)
- Mall Security: Brown (6) or Tan (44)
- Nightclub Security: Pink (18) or Purple (59)

### Complete Color Reference

The config includes a complete reference of all 86 FiveM blip colors (IDs 0-85), including:
- Standard colors (White, Red, Green, Blue, etc.)
- Department-specific colors (Police Blue, EMS White, Fire Orange)
- Custom RGB color support
- Predefined color references

See the `config.lua` file for the complete color reference with detailed descriptions of each color.

### Example Configurations

**High Visibility Police:**
```lua
['police'] = {
    blip = {
        sprite = 1,
        color = Config.StandardColors.police_blue,
        scale = Config.BlipSizes.large,  -- 1.8
        label = 'Police Unit',
        showDistance = true,
    },
}
```

**Emergency Medical Response:**
```lua
['ems'] = {
    blip = {
        sprite = 61,
        color = Config.StandardColors.ems_white,
        scale = Config.BlipSizes.huge,  -- 2.5
        label = 'EMS Unit',
        showDistance = true,
    },
}
```

**Custom RGB Color:**
```lua
['custom_security'] = {
    blip = {
        sprite = 50,
        color = {255, 128, 0},  -- Custom orange
        scale = 1.5,
        label = 'Security Unit',
        showDistance = true,
    },
}
```

## Common Blip Sprites and Colors

### Popular Blip Sprites
- `1` - Standard Police Blip
- `4` - Central White Circle
- `42` - First Responder
- `56` - Police Car
- `61` - Medical Cross
- `84` - Sheriff Blip
- `436` - Fire Department
- `487` - Ambulance

### Popular Blip Colors
- `1` - White
- `2` - Red
- `3` - Green
- `5` - Orange
- `38` - Blue (Police Blue)
- `47` - Yellow
- `59` - Purple

### Blip Sizes
- `0.5` - Tiny (very subtle)
- `0.8` - Small
- `1.0` - Medium (recommended default)
- `1.8` - Large (very visible)
- `2.5` - Huge (hard to miss)

You can also use predefined sizes from `Config.BlipSizes`:
```lua
scale = Config.BlipSizes.medium     -- 1.0
scale = Config.BlipSizes.large      -- 1.8
scale = Config.BlipSizes.huge       -- 2.5
```

### Color Configuration Options

1. **Use Predefined Colors by ID:**
```lua
color = 38  -- Police blue
color = 5   -- Orange
```

2. **Use Standard Color References:**
```lua
color = Config.StandardColors.police_blue
color = Config.StandardColors.ems_white
color = Config.StandardColors.fire_orange
```

3. **Use Custom RGB Colors (if supported):**
```lua
color = Config.CustomColors.custom_blue
color = {255, 0, 0}  -- Direct RGB (Red)
```

Complete reference: [FiveM Blip Documentation](https://docs.fivem.net/docs/game-references/blips/)

## Troubleshooting

### Tracker not working after installation

**Solution:**
1. Verify the resource is loading: check server console for `[GPS Tracker]` messages
2. Ensure framework resource loads before `gps_tracker`
3. Check `Config.Framework` matches your server's framework
4. Restart the resource: `restart gps_tracker`

### Players can't see each other on the map

**Solution:**
1. Verify both players have tracker jobs configured in `Config.Jobs`
2. Check `visibleTo` settings ensure both jobs can see each other
3. Verify players are on duty if `requireOnDuty` is enabled
4. Check if item requirement is enabled and players have the item
5. Verify both players have tracker enabled

### Blips not updating or disappearing

**Solution:**
1. Check `Config.UpdateInterval` - reduce if updates are too slow
2. Verify server performance - check for lag in server console
3. Increase `Config.Performance.staleBlipTimeout` if blips disappear too quickly
4. Check if `Config.MaxDistance` is limiting blip visibility

### High server resource usage

**Solution:**
1. Increase `Config.UpdateInterval` to reduce update frequency
2. Enable batch updates in `Config.Performance.batchUpdates`
3. Reduce `Config.Performance.batchSize`
4. Increase `Config.Performance.batchDelay`
5. Consider reducing number of tracked jobs

### Errors in server console

**Common Error - "Could not detect supported framework":**
```lua
Config.Framework = 'ESX'  -- Explicitly set your framework
```

**Common Error - "Job not configured":**
Add the job to `Config.Jobs` and set `enabled = true`

## Performance Benchmarks

Tested configurations and performance:

| Player Count | Update Interval | Batch Updates | CPU Usage | Memory Usage |
|--------------|-----------------|---------------|-----------|--------------|
| 50           | 2000ms          | No            | ~1%       | ~2MB         |
| 100          | 3000ms          | No            | ~2%       | ~3MB         |
| 150          | 3000ms          | Yes           | ~2.5%     | ~4MB         |
| 200          | 4000ms          | Yes           | ~3%       | ~5MB         |

## API Exports

The script provides these exports for integration with other resources:

```lua
-- Get tracker status (client-side)
local isEnabled = exports.gps_tracker:GetTrackerStatus()

-- Set tracker status (client-side)
exports.gps_tracker:SetTrackerStatus(true)  -- Enable
exports.gps_tracker:SetTrackerStatus(false) -- Disable

-- Get player tracker status (server-side)
local isTracking = exports.gps_tracker:GetPlayerTrackerStatus(playerId)

-- Set player tracker status (server-side)
exports.gps_tracker:SetPlayerTrackerStatus(playerId, true)

-- Get all tracked players (server-side)
local trackedPlayers = exports.gps_tracker:GetTrackedPlayers()
```

## Debugging

Enable debug mode in `config.lua`:

```lua
Config.Debug = true
```

This will:
- Print detailed messages to the console
- Show tracker status changes
- Log blip creation/removal
- Provide performance information

**Server Debug Commands:**
```lua
gps_debug_players    -- List all tracked players
gps_debug_update     -- Force update all players
gps_debug_reset      -- Reset all blips
```

## Support and Updates

For issues, suggestions, or contributions:
- Check the troubleshooting section first
- Review the configuration examples
- Enable debug mode to identify issues
- Check server console for error messages

## License

This script is provided as-is for use in FiveM roleplay servers. Feel free to modify and customize for your server's needs.

## Version History

### v1.0.0
- Initial release
- ESX and QBCore support
- Automatic duty integration
- Job-based visibility
- Optional item requirement
- Performance optimization
- Comprehensive documentation

## Additional Resources

- [FiveM Documentation](https://docs.fivem.net/)
- [ESX Documentation](https://documentation.esx-framework.org/)
- [QBCore Documentation](https://docs.qbcore.org/)
- [FiveM Blip Reference](https://docs.fivem.net/docs/game-references/blips/)

## ox_inventory Item Setup

Add these items in your ox_inventory item definitions:

```lua
['gps_tracker'] = {
    label = 'GPS Tracker',
    stack = false,
    close = true,
    client = {
        export = 'gps_tracker.UseTrackerItem'
    }
},
['panic_button'] = {
    label = 'Panic Button',
    stack = false,
    close = true,
    client = {
        export = 'gps_tracker.UsePanicItem'
    }
},
```

You can change item names in `Config.OxInventoryItems`, but if you change export wiring make sure the item points at the correct export/event in this resource.

## New Config Options

- `Config.AllowAllJobs` enables tracker/panic for any job not listed in `Config.Jobs`.
- `Config.DefaultJob` controls fallback blip/visibility settings used by all non-configured jobs.
- `Config.Animations.trackerToggle` and `Config.Animations.panic` let you fully configure animations and duration.
- `Config.Panic` controls panic cooldown, panic blip style, and how long panic blips stay visible.
- `Config.CuffChecks` blocks tracker/panic while the player is cuffed using state bag keys and optional exported checks.

Commit message:

Lock tracker visibility by job and add configurable commands/keybinds

README.md, after:

# GPS Tracker System for FiveM Roleplay Servers

A complete, production-ready GPS tracking system for FiveM roleplay servers. Features automatic duty integration, job-based visibility, optional item requirements, and performance optimization for 100+ concurrent players.

## Features

- **Automatic Duty Integration**: Tracker automatically enables when players go on duty and disables when they clock out
- **Job-Based Visibility**: Only players from configured job types can see each other on the map
- **Cross-Job Visibility**: Support for multiple job categories that can see each other (e.g., police and sheriff)
- **Optional Item Requirement**: Configurable requirement for players to have a specific item in inventory
- **All-Job Support**: Optional fallback mode so any job can use the tracker
- **Panic Button System**: Sends emergency panic alerts with configurable animation and temporary panic blips
- **Cuff Abuse Protection**: Prevents tracker and panic usage while cuffed
- **ox_inventory Ready**: Use tracker/panic as ox_inventory items via exports and client events
- **Framework Support**: Full compatibility with ESX and QBCore frameworks
- **Performance Optimized**: Efficient update intervals and batch processing for high-player-count servers
- **Customizable Blips**: Configure different blip sprites, colors, and sizes per job type with player-name labels
- **Distance Limiting**: Optional maximum distance for blip visibility

## Requirements

- FiveM server (latest stable release)
- ESX 1.2+ or QBCore framework
- Lua knowledge (for advanced customization)

## Installation

### Step 1: Download and Extract

1. Download the `gps_tracker` folder
2. Extract it to your server's `resources` directory
3. The folder structure should look like:
   ```
   server/
   └── resources/
       └── [local]/
           └── gps_tracker/
               ├── fxmanifest.lua
               ├── config.lua
               ├── client/
               │   └── client.lua
               └── server/
                   └── server.lua
   ```

### Step 2: Configure the Script

1. Open `config.lua` in a text editor
2. Set your framework: `Config.Framework = 'ESX'` or `'QBCore'`
3. Configure the jobs you want to enable tracking for
4. Customize blip settings, update intervals, and other options
5. Save the file

### Step 3: Add to Server Configuration

Add the resource to your `server.cfg`:

```cfg
ensure gps_tracker
```

**Important**: Make sure `gps_tracker` is loaded AFTER your framework resources:

```cfg
ensure es_extended  # or qb-core
ensure gps_tracker
```

### Step 4: Restart Your Server

Restart your server or use the console command:
```
refresh
start gps_tracker
```

## Configuration Guide

### Framework Selection

Set the framework in `config.lua`:

```lua
Config.Framework = 'ESX'  -- Options: 'ESX', 'QBCore', 'Auto'
```

### Adding Jobs

Edit the `Config.Jobs` table in `config.lua`:

```lua
Config.Jobs = {
    ['police'] = {
        enabled = true,
        blip = {
            sprite = 1,           -- Blip sprite ID
            color = 38,           -- Blip color ID
            scale = 0.8,          -- Blip size (0.1 - 5.0)
            label = 'Police Unit',-- Label shown on map
            showDistance = true,  -- Show distance in label
        },
        visibleTo = {'police', 'sheriff', 'ems', 'ambulance'}, -- Who can see them
        requireOnDuty = true,     -- Must be on duty
    },
}
```

### Job Visibility Configuration

Configure who can see each job using the `visibleTo` array:

```lua
-- Only police can see each other
visibleTo = {'police'}

-- Police and sheriff can see each other
visibleTo = {'police', 'sheriff'}

-- All emergency services can see each other
visibleTo = {'police', 'sheriff', 'ems', 'ambulance', 'fire'}

-- Anyone with tracker can see them (not recommended for RP)
visibleTo = {'all'}
```

### Enabling Item Requirement

To require players to have a specific item:

1. Set `Config.RequireItem = true` in config.lua
2. Configure the required item name: `Config.RequiredItem = 'gps_device'`
3. Add the item to your server's items database

**For ESX:**
```sql
INSERT INTO `items` (`name`, `label`, `weight`) VALUES ('gps_device', 'GPS Device', 500);
```

**For QBCore:**
Add to `qb-core/shared/items.lua`:
```lua
['gps_device'] = {
    ['name'] = 'gps_device',
    ['label'] = 'GPS Device',
    ['weight'] = 500,
    ['type'] = 'item',
    ['image'] = 'gps_device.png',
    ['unique'] = false,
    ['useable'] = false,
    ['shouldClose'] = false,
    ['combinable'] = nil,
    ['description'] = 'A GPS tracking device used by emergency services'
},
```

### Performance Tuning

Adjust these settings based on your server's player count:

```lua
Config.UpdateInterval = 3000  -- Milliseconds between updates

Config.Performance = {
    batchUpdates = true,      -- Enable batch processing
    batchSize = 10,           -- Players per batch
    batchDelay = 100,         -- Delay between batches (ms)
    staleBlipTimeout = 10000, -- Timeout for stale blips (ms)
    cleanupInterval = 30000,  -- Cleanup interval (ms)
}
```

**Recommended Settings:**
- **50-100 players**: UpdateInterval = 3000ms
- **100-200 players**: UpdateInterval = 4000ms
- **200+ players**: UpdateInterval = 5000ms, enable batchUpdates

## Available Commands

By default, the following commands are available (configure in `config.lua` under `Config.Commands`):

- `/enabletracker` - Manually enable the GPS tracker
- `/disabletracker` - Manually disable the GPS tracker
- `/trackerstatus` - Check current tracker status
- `/panic` - Send a panic alert to authorized units

You can disable all commands with `Config.Commands.enabled = false` or disable each command individually with `enabled = false`.

## Keybinds

Optional keybinds are available in `Config.Keybinds`:

- `toggleTracker` (default: `F6`)
- `panic` (default: `F7`)

Set `Config.Keybinds.enabled = false` to disable keybind registration globally, or set individual keybind `enabled = false`.

## Framework-Specific Notes

### ESX Integration

The script hooks into these ESX events:
- `esx:playerLoaded` - Player joined and loaded
- `esx:setJob` - Player job changed
- `esx:onJob` - Player went on duty (custom event)
- `esx:offJob` - Player went off duty (custom event)

**Custom Duty Events:**
If your ESX server uses different duty event names, update them in `Config.ESX`:

```lua
Config.ESX = {
    onDutyEvent = 'esx:onJob',
    offDutyEvent = 'esx:offJob',
}
```

### QBCore Integration

The script hooks into these QBCore events:
- `QBCore:Client:OnPlayerLoaded` - Player joined and loaded
- `QBCore:Client:OnJobUpdate` - Player job changed
- `QBCore:Server:OnDutyUpdate` - Player duty status changed

QBCore automatically handles duty status through the job object.

## Blip Color and Size Customization Guide

### Choosing the Right Blip Size

Blip sizes range from 0.1 (tiny) to 5.0 (huge). Here are recommendations:

**For Different Department Sizes:**
- **Small departments (5-10 players)**: Medium size (1.0)
- **Medium departments (10-30 players)**: Large size (1.8)
- **Large departments (30+ players)**: Huge size (2.5)

**For Different Use Cases:**
- **Regular patrol**: Medium (1.0) or Large (1.8)
- **Emergency response**: Large (1.8) or Huge (2.5)
- **Covert operations**: Small (0.8)
- **Maximum visibility**: Huge (2.5)

**Predefined Sizes Available:**
```lua
Config.BlipSizes.tiny      -- 0.5 (Very subtle)
Config.BlipSizes.small     -- 0.8 (Standard)
Config.BlipSizes.medium    -- 1.0 (Recommended)
Config.BlipSizes.large     -- 1.8 (Very visible)
Config.BlipSizes.huge      -- 2.5 (Hard to miss)
```

### Choosing the Right Blip Color

**Police Departments:**
- Standard Police: Blue (38) or Navy Blue (40)
- Sheriff: Blue (38) or Dark Blue (64)
- SWAT: White (1) or Black (10)
- Highway Patrol: Blue (38) or Light Blue (16)

**Emergency Services:**
- EMS/Paramedics: White (1) or Pink (60)
- Fire Department: Orange (5) or Gold (42)
- Search & Rescue: Green (3) or Lime Green (81)

**Security:**
- Private Security: Orange (5) or Dark Orange (26)
- Mall Security: Brown (6) or Tan (44)
- Nightclub Security: Pink (18) or Purple (59)

### Complete Color Reference

The config includes a complete reference of all 86 FiveM blip colors (IDs 0-85), including:
- Standard colors (White, Red, Green, Blue, etc.)
- Department-specific colors (Police Blue, EMS White, Fire Orange)
- Custom RGB color support
- Predefined color references

See the `config.lua` file for the complete color reference with detailed descriptions of each color.

### Example Configurations

**High Visibility Police:**
```lua
['police'] = {
    blip = {
        sprite = 1,
        color = Config.StandardColors.police_blue,
        scale = Config.BlipSizes.large,  -- 1.8
        label = 'Police Unit',
        showDistance = true,
    },
}
```

**Emergency Medical Response:**
```lua
['ems'] = {
    blip = {
        sprite = 61,
        color = Config.StandardColors.ems_white,
        scale = Config.BlipSizes.huge,  -- 2.5
        label = 'EMS Unit',
        showDistance = true,
    },
}
```

**Custom RGB Color:**
```lua
['custom_security'] = {
    blip = {
        sprite = 50,
        color = {255, 128, 0},  -- Custom orange
        scale = 1.5,
        label = 'Security Unit',
        showDistance = true,
    },
}
```

## Common Blip Sprites and Colors

### Popular Blip Sprites
- `1` - Standard Police Blip
- `4` - Central White Circle
- `42` - First Responder
- `56` - Police Car
- `61` - Medical Cross
- `84` - Sheriff Blip
- `436` - Fire Department
- `487` - Ambulance

### Popular Blip Colors
- `1` - White
- `2` - Red
- `3` - Green
- `5` - Orange
- `38` - Blue (Police Blue)
- `47` - Yellow
- `59` - Purple

### Blip Sizes
- `0.5` - Tiny (very subtle)
- `0.8` - Small
- `1.0` - Medium (recommended default)
- `1.8` - Large (very visible)
- `2.5` - Huge (hard to miss)

You can also use predefined sizes from `Config.BlipSizes`:
```lua
scale = Config.BlipSizes.medium     -- 1.0
scale = Config.BlipSizes.large      -- 1.8
scale = Config.BlipSizes.huge       -- 2.5
```

### Color Configuration Options

1. **Use Predefined Colors by ID:**
```lua
color = 38  -- Police blue
color = 5   -- Orange
```

2. **Use Standard Color References:**
```lua
color = Config.StandardColors.police_blue
color = Config.StandardColors.ems_white
color = Config.StandardColors.fire_orange
```

3. **Use Custom RGB Colors (if supported):**
```lua
color = Config.CustomColors.custom_blue
color = {255, 0, 0}  -- Direct RGB (Red)
```

Complete reference: [FiveM Blip Documentation](https://docs.fivem.net/docs/game-references/blips/)

## Troubleshooting

### Tracker not working after installation

**Solution:**
1. Verify the resource is loading: check server console for `[GPS Tracker]` messages
2. Ensure framework resource loads before `gps_tracker`
3. Check `Config.Framework` matches your server's framework
4. Restart the resource: `restart gps_tracker`

### Players can't see each other on the map

**Solution:**
1. Verify both players have tracker jobs configured in `Config.Jobs`
2. Check `visibleTo` settings ensure both jobs can see each other
3. Verify players are on duty if `requireOnDuty` is enabled
4. Check if item requirement is enabled and players have the item
5. Verify both players have tracker enabled

### Blips not updating or disappearing

**Solution:**
1. Check `Config.UpdateInterval` - reduce if updates are too slow
2. Verify server performance - check for lag in server console
3. Increase `Config.Performance.staleBlipTimeout` if blips disappear too quickly
4. Check if `Config.MaxDistance` is limiting blip visibility

### High server resource usage

**Solution:**
1. Increase `Config.UpdateInterval` to reduce update frequency
2. Enable batch updates in `Config.Performance.batchUpdates`
3. Reduce `Config.Performance.batchSize`
4. Increase `Config.Performance.batchDelay`
5. Consider reducing number of tracked jobs

### Errors in server console

**Common Error - "Could not detect supported framework":**
```lua
Config.Framework = 'ESX'  -- Explicitly set your framework
```

**Common Error - "Job not configured":**
Add the job to `Config.Jobs` and set `enabled = true`

## Performance Benchmarks

Tested configurations and performance:

| Player Count | Update Interval | Batch Updates | CPU Usage | Memory Usage |
|--------------|-----------------|---------------|-----------|--------------|
| 50           | 2000ms          | No            | ~1%       | ~2MB         |
| 100          | 3000ms          | No            | ~2%       | ~3MB         |
| 150          | 3000ms          | Yes           | ~2.5%     | ~4MB         |
| 200          | 4000ms          | Yes           | ~3%       | ~5MB         |

## API Exports

The script provides these exports for integration with other resources:

```lua
-- Get tracker status (client-side)
local isEnabled = exports.gps_tracker:GetTrackerStatus()

-- Set tracker status (client-side)
exports.gps_tracker:SetTrackerStatus(true)  -- Enable
exports.gps_tracker:SetTrackerStatus(false) -- Disable

-- Get player tracker status (server-side)
local isTracking = exports.gps_tracker:GetPlayerTrackerStatus(playerId)

-- Set player tracker status (server-side)
exports.gps_tracker:SetPlayerTrackerStatus(playerId, true)

-- Get all tracked players (server-side)
local trackedPlayers = exports.gps_tracker:GetTrackedPlayers()
```

## Debugging

Enable debug mode in `config.lua`:

```lua
Config.Debug = true
```

This will:
- Print detailed messages to the console
- Show tracker status changes
- Log blip creation/removal
- Provide performance information

**Server Debug Commands:**
```lua
gps_debug_players    -- List all tracked players
gps_debug_update     -- Force update all players
gps_debug_reset      -- Reset all blips
```

## Support and Updates

For issues, suggestions, or contributions:
- Check the troubleshooting section first
- Review the configuration examples
- Enable debug mode to identify issues
- Check server console for error messages

## License

This script is provided as-is for use in FiveM roleplay servers. Feel free to modify and customize for your server's needs.

## Version History

### v1.0.0
- Initial release
- ESX and QBCore support
- Automatic duty integration
- Job-based visibility
- Optional item requirement
- Performance optimization
- Comprehensive documentation

## Additional Resources

- [FiveM Documentation](https://docs.fivem.net/)
- [ESX Documentation](https://documentation.esx-framework.org/)
- [QBCore Documentation](https://docs.qbcore.org/)
- [FiveM Blip Reference](https://docs.fivem.net/docs/game-references/blips/)

## ox_inventory Item Setup

Add these items in your ox_inventory item definitions:

```lua
['gps_tracker'] = {
    label = 'GPS Tracker',
    stack = false,
    close = true,
    client = {
        export = 'gps_tracker.UseTrackerItem'
    }
},
['panic_button'] = {
    label = 'Panic Button',
    stack = false,
    close = true,
    client = {
        export = 'gps_tracker.UsePanicItem'
    }
},
```

You can change item names in `Config.OxInventoryItems`, but if you change export wiring make sure the item points at the correct export/event in this resource.

## New Config Options

- `Config.AllowAllJobs` enables tracker/panic for any job not listed in `Config.Jobs`.
- `Config.DefaultJob` controls fallback blip/visibility settings used by all non-configured jobs.
- `Config.Animations.trackerToggle` and `Config.Animations.panic` let you fully configure animations and duration.
- `Config.Panic` controls panic cooldown, panic blip style, and how long panic blips stay visible.
- `Config.CuffChecks` blocks tracker/panic while the player is cuffed using state bag keys and optional exported checks.
